
# Security book for Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes and AKS enabled by Azure Arc

> [!NOTE]
> This is one of a series of security books, offering recommendations and best practices to help secure Microsoft platforms. Other security books include [Azure Local security book](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/AzureLocal/blob/main/SecurityBook/Azure%20Local%20Security%20Book_04302025.pdf), [the Windows Server 2025 book](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/blog/microsoft-security-blog/windows-server-2025-security-book/4283981), and the [Windows Client security book](/windows/security/book/)

Your organization may have Kubernetes deployments that include clusters running at the edge (on-premises in data centers, factories, shops) or in multiple clouds. It is often a challenge to maintain a consistent and scalable security posture in these heterogeneous environments. You can help address this challenge, and simplify your security workflows by running Microsoft-managed clusters using [Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) enabled by Azure Arc](/azure/aks/hybrid/aks-overview) on your edge infrastructure, such as on [Azure Local](/azure/azure-local/overview?view=azloc-24113). Or you can connect existing non-Microsoft edge clusters using [Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes](/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/).

This book explains how these products can help you maintain a consistent and scalable security posture that covers both your cluster infrastructure and your application workloads that run on it. It advises how you can follow and adapt best practices such as those from the [National Security Agency / Cybersecurity and Infras(tructure Security Agency](https://media.defense.gov/2022/Aug/29/2003066362/-1/-1/0/CTR_KUBERNETES_HARDENING_GUIDANCE_1.2_20220829.PDF) (NSA/CISA), the [Center for Internet Security (CIS)](https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/kubernetes), the [Open Worldwide application Security Project](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Kubernetes_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html) (OWASP), the [National Institute of Standards and Technology](https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/190/final) (NIST), and [Kubernetes itself](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/) to help guard against multiple threat vectors across supply chain risks, malicious external actors, or insider attacks. It aligns with the [Microsoft Threat Matrix for Kubernetes](https://microsoft.github.io/Threat-Matrix-for-Kubernetes/) and with [Microsoft’s security advice for AKS cloud clusters](/azure/aks/concepts-security), expanding this to include additional considerations for edge clusters, and with our [security advice for IoT solutions](/azure/iot/iot-overview-security?tabs=edge).

If you are a security professional, this book surveys all these factors and makes multiple recommendations. If you are a leader or engineer with direct responsibility for Kubernetes development, deployment, or operations, it further points you towards detailed practical advice on steps you can take.

:::image type="content" source="media/conceptual-security-book/security-challenges.png" alt-text="Diagram showing the five categories of security challenges for edge Kubernetes.":::

The security challenges fall into five categories:
1. Securing your platform. This includes configuring your Kubernetes cluster to operate more securely, and doing the same for its underlying OS and hardware infrastructure as needed, appropriately leveraging all their built-in capabilities. 
1. Securing your workloads. This includes building your containers more securely, by following Kubernetes and Linux security standards, and establishing more secure authentication and authorization for requests to/from other services inside and outside of the clusters.
1. Securing your operations. This includes controlling who can deploy to these clusters, unifying the cluster-local Kubernetes system for control plane authentication and authorization with Microsoft Entra and Azure Role Based Access Control (RBAC) in the cloud. It also covers how to better secure your software supply chain and enforce standards on your deployments through policies.
1. Securing your data. This includes better securing access both to your workload application data and to the data that Kubernetes stores on your behalf, particularly secrets such as passwords.
1. Securing your network. This includes configuring the additional defense in depth that comes from controlling management and data traffic at the network level, including which sources your clusters and workloads can receive from, and which targets they can they send to.

This book provides guidance on these challenges for Arc-enabled Kubernetes clusters in general and for AKS enabled by Azure Arc clusters in particular. There are many [deployment options](/azure/aks/aksarc/aks-overview#aks-enabled-by-azure-arc-deployment-options) for AKS enabled by Azure Arc. This book covers the [Azure Local 23H2](/azure/aks/aksarc/cluster-architecture) deployment option and builds upon the [Azure Local security features](/azure/azure-local/concepts/security-features?view=azloc-24113) and [security book](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/AzureLocal/blob/main/SecurityBook/Azure Local Security Book_01172025.pdf). (Other deployment options offer some but not all of the same benefits.)

## Next steps

- Learn about [securing your platform](conceptual-securing-your-platform.md)